---
blog_post: true
guid: 2176d996-fc18-45f1-acfb-6a3c5829cc5c
title: Steel mounted photographic wall prints (or, cool pictures printed on metal) in Thanet
date:       2007-06-07 08:44:00 +01:00
layout: blog
---

[Printerior Design](http://www.printeriordesign.co.uk) are a
[local](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thanet) (to me, probably not to
you) firm that produce cool pictures. They are beautiful
[photos](http://www.printeriordesign.co.uk/galleries.html) printed
directly onto heavy duty metal - ‘man-art’ if you will. I bought [this
one](http://www.printeriordesign.co.uk/landscapes/pages/Dawn%201500%20thumbnail%20with%20drop%20shadow_jpg.htm)
as a Christmas present.

[![](http://farm2.static.flickr.com/1239/534275282_2d4ba6dde1.jpg)](http://www.printeriordesign.co.uk/landscapes/pages/Dawn%201500%20thumbnail%20with%20drop%20shadow_jpg.htm)

The reason for this post is because a friend recently asked me where I
got the picture. Not remembering the name of the company, I started
googling. I knew that they had pictures in Harpers Wine Bar (I thought
they had a website but I can’t find it) in
[Broadstairs](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Broadstairs), and in the
[Albion Hotel](http://www.albionbroadstairs.co.uk/), also in
Broadstairs. I also knew that their workshop was on Pysons Road
Industrial estate. Sadly, even with this info, they just weren’t
appearing in google. So, I’m hoping that this might help them out a
little bit.

I can’t help but think that they’d benefit massively from a blog about
their work - I’m of the belief that what they do is pretty different.

**Update** I’ve uploaded a copy of the picture I have to
[flickr](http://www.flickr.com) and embedded it in this post - hoping
the printerior guys don’t mind too much…
